Promtail: adding pipeline stage inspector (#4011)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/clients/promtail/troubleshooting.md

cat my.log | promtail --stdin --dry-run --client.url http://127.0.0.1:3100/loki/api/v1/push
```

> ## Inspecting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Inspecting log entry changes
```

Author: I think `Inspecting pipeline stages` will scan better here, any objections?

Reviewer: You can change it.  When I read this header from the prospective of a not-advanced Loki user, I don't know or remember what pipeline stages are (in Loki).  I also think that we're not actually inspecting pipeline stages, but instead we're inspecting the results caused by invoked pipeline stages.  Does my explanation make sense?

Author: OK thanks; I think any Promtail user who's coming to this troubleshooting page will already know what pipeline stages, so I think that's acceptable.

> Promtail can be configured to print all changes to log entries as each pipeline stage is executed (via the flag `--inspect`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Promtail can output all changes to log entries as each pipeline stage is executed.
```

Each log entry contains four fields:
- line
- timestamp
- labels
- extracted fields

> Whenever any of these change, a log message will be printed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the inspection output using the `--inspect` command-line option. This option can be used in combination with `--stdin` and `--dry-run`.
```

Author: I think we need to give the relevant flag here (`--inspect`) more visual hierarchy so it can be found more easily. Any objection to my adding a linebreak between those 2 sentences you suggested?

Reviewer: Yes.  If you were to put a line break inbetween, then the second sentence must change.  It starts with "This option", and so loses the reference to what would then be the previous paragraph.  If you want to add the newline, change the second sentence (new paragraph) to start with 
> The `--inspect` option can be . . .

```bash
cat my.log | promtail --stdin --dry-run --inspect --client.url http://127.0.0.1:3100/loki/api/v1/push
```

![inspect.png](inspect.png)

> It can be used in combination with `--stdin` and `--dry-run`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Additions will be highlighted in green, modifications in yellow, and removals in red.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output uses color to distinguish the modification. Additions are in green, modifications in yellow, and removals in red.
```

Author: I think this is more wordy and says the same thing TBH.

Reviewer: You are correct.  My suggestion made the first sentence active (instead of passive) voice.  Active voice is the golden ticket that we strive for in our writing. . .

Author: Ah, right. Thanks for adding that detail.

I'm getting hung up on the use of "modification" in both sentences. I think I'll go for this if you have no objections:
"The output uses color to highlight changes. Additions are in green, modifications in yellow, and removals in red."

> If no changes are applied during a stage, that is usually an indication of a misconfiguration or undesired behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no changes are applied during a stage, that is usually an indication of a misconfiguration or undesired behavior.
```

> **Note**: the `--inspect` flag should _not_ be used in production.

Reviewer: I don't think that this needs to be a "Note."  It doesn't hurt anything, but it does draw a reader's eyes away from all the other important prose before the Note.  If it should not be missed by readers, then I would suggest changing the very first sentence of the section to be:
> For environments other than production environments, Promtail can output all changes to log entries as each pipeline stage is executed.

Can you add a phrase or sentence about why the inspect should not be used in production?

Author: Good point, I will do :+1:

- labels
- extracted fields

> Enable the inspection output using the `--inspect` command-line option.<br>
> The `--inspect` option can be used in combination with `--stdin` and `--dry-run`.

Reviewer: Please inject a blank line instead of using HTML.

```suggestion
Enable the inspection output using the `--inspect` command-line option.

The `--inspect` option can be used in combination with `--stdin` and `--dry-run`.
```

```bash
cat my.log | promtail --stdin --dry-run --inspect --client.url http://127.0.0.1:3100/loki/api/v1/push
```

![screenshot](../inspect.png)

The output uses color to highlight changes. Additions are in green, modifications in yellow, and removals in red.

If no changes are applied during a stage, that is usually an indication of a misconfiguration or undesired behavior.

The `--inspect` flag should not be used in production, as the calculation of changes between pipeline stages impacts

> Promtail's performance.

Reviewer: You and I know that the impact is a negative thing. . . but we can make that obvious for the reader by changing the wording slightly.  I suggest one of 2 options:
1. The `--inspect` flag should not be used in production, as the calculation of changes between pipeline stages negatively impacts
Promtail's performance.
2. The `--inspect` flag should not be used in production, as the calculation of changes between pipeline stages reduces
Promtail's performance.
